humans the most dominant species on
earth
[Music]
7.8 billion of us now call this planet
home but our way of life is breaking
down the natural world
the impact so profound we have become a
force of nature
and our destruction is not limited to
land
climate change overfishing and pollution
now threaten all the world's oceans
pushing many species to the brink of
extinction
the atlantic bluefin tuna is no
exception
one of the biggest and fastest fish in
the ocean its rich meat
draws fleets from around the world
cashing in on its extraordinary value
but overfishing is not the only threat
as we release more co2 our oceans are
becoming warmer and more acidic
putting dwindling fish stocks under even
greater pressure
to keep our oceans healthy we must
protect these endangered giants
[Music]
just like top predators on land tuna
play a vital role
keeping marine systems in balance as
they prey
on smaller fish
capable of great bursts of speed
atlantic bluefin are built to travel
migrating thousands of kilometers every
year
criss-crossing the vast ocean in search
of food
incredibly they always return to their
place of birth to spawn
but as our climate and oceans change
there is still
much to learn about these ocean
wanderers and how they will respond
off the coast of britain a team of
marine biologists
are working to do just that
pretty much swimming address i'm just
going to cut in front of it
and see if i can't intercept it
they're moving so quickly though
after disappearing for over 40 years
bluefin tuna have started to move back
into british waters
fitting state-of-the-art tracking tax to
these visitors
will give the team vital clues on where
the tuner have come from
and why
[Music]
whoa that was a tuner right here
yeah he's gone he's gone
[Music]
with a one and a half meter bluefin on
the deck the team have less than two
minutes to fit the tracker
before returning the fish safely to the
water
okay
[Music]
beautiful all going well the tag will
stay on the tuner for a year
it's part of an international effort to
uncover remarkable details about the
lives of these iconic fish
their journey in this way is helping to
build an ocean-wide recovery plan
[Music]
and as the fish break new ground every
tag brings vital data
to secure a future for these
extraordinary ocean travelers